[DOC-722] Add and update voyager schema workaround (#27276)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/known-issues/postgresql.md

#### Multi-column index

In a multi-column index with a low cardinality column as the sharding key, the data will be unevenly distributed.

**Workaround**:

Make this index a range-sharded index to distribute data based on the combined values of all columns, or reorder the index columns to place the high-cardinality column first. This enables sharding on the high-cardinality column and ensures even distribution across all nodes.

**Example**:

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TYPE order_statuses AS ENUM ('CONFIRMED', 'SHIPPED', 'OUT FOR DELIVERY', 'DELIVERED', 'CANCELLED');

CREATE TABLE orders (
    order_id int PRIMARY,
    ...,
    status order_statuses
);

CREATE INDEX idx_order_status on orders (status); --single column index on column having only 5 values 

CREATE INDEX idx_order_status_order_id on orders (status, order_id); --multi column index on first column with only 5 values 
```

> Since the no. of distinct values of the column status is 5, there will be a maximum of 5 tablets created, limiting the scalability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the number of distinct values of the column `status` is 5, there will be a maximum of 5 tablets created, limiting the scalability.
```

> Suggested change to both types of indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suggested change to both types of indexes is one of the following.
```

> To make it a multi-column range-index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make it a multi-column range-index:
```

```sql
 --These indexes will distribute the data on the combine value of both and as order_id is high cardinality column, it will make sure that data is distributed evenly

CREATE INDEX idx_order_status on orders(status ASC, order_id); --adding order_id and making it a range-sharded index explictly

CREATE INDEX idx_order_status_order_id on orders (status ASC, order_id); --making it a range-sharded index explictly 
```

> OR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> multi-column with a sharding key on a high-cardinality column:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make it multi-column with a sharding key on a high-cardinality column:
```

```sql
--these indexes will distribute the data on order_id first and then each shard is clustered on status  

CREATE INDEX idx_orders_status on orders(order_id, status); --making it multi column by adding order_id as first column 

CREATE INDEX idx_order_status_order_id on orders (order_id, status); --reordering the columns to place the order_id first and then keeping status.
```

---

### Index on column with a high percentage of NULL values

**Description**:

> In YugabyteDB, the columns specified in the [CREATE INDEX](../../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_create_index) statement are of three kinds: sharding, clustering, and covering. For more details, refer to the documentation for [secondary indexes](../../../explore/ysql-language-features/indexes-constraints/secondary-indexes-ysql/). The sharding strategy is HASH by default unless [Postgres Compatibility mode](./../../develop/postgresql-compatibility/) is enabled, in which case, RANGE is the default sharding strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In YugabyteDB, you can specify three kinds of columns when using [CREATE INDEX](../../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_create_index): sharding, clustering, and covering. (For more details, refer to [Secondary indexes](../../../explore/ysql-language-features/indexes-constraints/secondary-indexes-ysql/).) The default sharding strategy is HASH unless [Enhanced PostgreSQL Compatibility mode](./../../develop/postgresql-compatibility/) is enabled, in which case, RANGE is the default sharding strategy.
```

> Design the index to evenly distribute data across all nodes and optimize performance based on query patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Design the index to evenly distribute data across all nodes and optimize performance based on query patterns.
```

> The index must be designed in a way that the data is evenly distributed among all the nodes and is performant as per the query patterns.

Reviewer 2: we can keep the wording similar for these two issues as the low-cardinality one above.

> The sharding strategy is HASH by default unless [Postgres Compatibility mode](./../../develop/postgresql-compatibility/) is enabled, in which case, RANGE is the default sharding strategy.

> Design the index to evenly distribute data across all nodes and optimize performance based on query patterns.

If an index is created on a column with a high percentage of NULL values, all NULL entries will be stored in a single tablet. This concentration can create a hotspot, leading to performance degradation.

**Workaround**: If the NULL values are not being queried, it is recommended to create a Partial index by filtering the NULL values and  optimizing it for the other data.

If NULL values are being queried and the index is a single-column index, it is recommended to add another column and make it a multi-column range-sharded index to distribute the NULL values evenly across various nodes. If the index is multi-column, it is recommended to make it a range-sharded index.

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
    user_id int PRIMARY,
    first_name text,
    middle_name text,
    ...
);

CREATE INDEX idx_users_middle_name on users (middle_name); -- this index is on middle name which is having 50% NULL values

CREATE INDEX idx_users_middle_name_user_id on users (middle_name, user_id); -- this index is having first column as middle name which is having 50% NULL values

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> As these indexes have a sharding key on the middle_name column, which has half of the values as NULL, half of the data resides on a single tablet and becomes a hotspot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As these indexes have a sharding key on the `middle_name` column, where half of the values as NULL, half of the data resides on a single tablet and becomes a hotspot.
```

> Suggested change to the schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suggested change to the schema is one of the following.
```

> Partial indexing by removing the NULL values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partial indexing by removing the NULL values:
```

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_users_middle_name on users (middle_name) where middle_name <> NULL; --filtering the NULL values so those will not be indexed

CREATE INDEX idx_users_middle_name_user_id on users (middle_name, user_id) where middle_name <> NULL;  --filtering the NULL values so those will not be indexed
```

> OR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Making it a range-sharded index explicitly so that NULLs are evenly distributed across all nodes, with another column

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making it a range-sharded index explicitly so that NULLs are evenly distributed across all nodes by using another column:
```

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_users_middle_name on users (middle_name ASC, user_id); --adding user_id 

CREATE INDEX idx_users_middle_name_user_id on users (middle_name ASC, user_id);

```

---

### Index on column with high percentage of a particular value

**Description**:

> In YugabyteDB, the columns specified in the [CREATE INDEX](../../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_create_index) statement are of three kinds: sharding, clustering, and covering. For more details, refer to the documentation for [secondary indexes](../../../explore/ysql-language-features/indexes-constraints/secondary-indexes-ysql/). The sharding strategy is HASH by default unless [Postgres Compatibility mode](./../../develop/postgresql-compatibility/) is enabled, in which case, RANGE is the default sharding strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In YugabyteDB, you can specify three kinds of columns when using [CREATE INDEX](../../../api/ysql/the-sql-language/statements/ddl_create_index): sharding, clustering, and covering. (For more details, refer to [Secondary indexes](../../../explore/ysql-language-features/indexes-constraints/secondary-indexes-ysql/).) The default sharding strategy is HASH unless [Enhanced PostgreSQL Compatibility mode](./../../develop/postgresql-compatibility/) is enabled, in which case, RANGE is the default sharding strategy.
```

Design the index to evenly distribute data across all nodes and optimize performance based on query patterns.

> If the index is designed for a column with a high percentage of a particular value in the data, it can create a hotspot issue. All the data for that value will reside on a single tablet, which will become a hotspot for this value in the queries and, hence, cause performance degradation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the index is designed for a column with a high percentage of a particular value in the data, all the data for that value will reside on a single tablet, which will become a hotspot, causing performance degradation.
```

> **Workaround**: If the frequently occurring value is not being queried, it is recommended that a Partial index be created by filtering this value and, hence, optimizing it for other data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Workaround**: If the frequently occurring value is not being queried, it is recommended that a Partial index be created by filtering this value, optimizing it for other data.
```

If the value is being queried and the index is a single-column index, it is recommended to add another column and make it a multi-column range-sharded index to distribute the value evenly across various nodes. If the index is multi-column, it is recommended to make it a range-sharded index.

**Example**

An example schema on the source database is as follows:

```sql
CREATE TABLE user_activity (
    user_id int PRIMARY,
    event_type text, --type of the activity 'login', 'logout', 'profile_update
, 'email_verification', so on.. various events 
    event_timestamp timestampz,
    ...
);

CREATE INDEX idx_user_activity_event_type on user_activity (event_type); --this index is on the event_type which is having 80% data with 'login' type 

CREATE INDEX idx_user_activity_event_type_user_id on user_activity (event_type, user_id); --this index is on the event_type which is having 80% data with 'login' type 

```

> As these indexes have a sharding key on the event_type column, which has the most common value as ‘login’, which covers 80% of the data, and hence 80% of the data resides on a single tablet, which becomes a hotspot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As these indexes have a sharding key on the `event_type` column, where the value ‘login’ is 80% of the data, 80% of the data resides on a single tablet, which becomes a hotspot.
```

> Suggested change to the schema is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suggested change to the schema is one of the following.
```

Partial indexing by removing the ‘login’ value from the index to optimize it for other values.

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_user_activity_event_type on user_activity (event_type) where event_type <> 'login' ; --filtering the 'login' values so those will not be indexed

CREATE INDEX idx_user_activity_event_type_user_id on user_activity (event_type, user_id) where event_type <> 'login' ;  --filtering the 'login' values so those will not be indexed
```

OR

> Explicitly making it a range-sharded index so that the empty string value is evenly distributed across all nodes with another column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explicitly making it a range-sharded index so that the empty string value is evenly distributed across all nodes by adding another column.
```
